About this project

I recently conducted the impact of remote work to mental health analysis for Soft Group of Company using Excel, I downloaded the data, cleaned, organized and analysed from kaggle.

Social Isolation Rating by Region

The analysis of social isolation by region reveals that Oceania experience the highest level of social isolation rating, with a sum of 2658 followed by Africa, Asia, Europe and South America with sum of 2569, 2471, 2467, and 2464 respectively report a slightly lower social isolation rating with a sum of 2569. Overall, the analysis indicates a disparity in social isolation among different regions, with Oceania experiencing higher levels of social isolation compared to  Africa, Asia, Europe and South Africa.

 

Work Location  by Mental health

The analysis of work location by mental health reveals that remote work  experience the highest levels of satisfaction, with a percentage of 34.28% and satisfaction with hybrid work and onsite work percentage were relatively low with 32.98% and 32. 74% respectively.  Overall, the data indicates majority of the staff prefer working remotely than hybrid and onsite location.

 

Satisfaction with Remote Work by Location

The analysis of satisfaction with remote work by location reveals that unsatisfied staff experience the highest levels of satisfaction with remote work, with a count of 1677. satisfied  and neutral staff with a lower level of satisfaction with remote work with counts of 1675 and 1648 respectively. Overall, the data indicates that majority of the staff are unsatisfied with ewmote work

 

Sleep Quality by Work Location

The analysis shows that remote job create highest sleep quality with 1714 . As hybrid and onsite work location create low sleep quality with total of 1649 and 1637 respectively which may likely have effects on staff mental health being. Overall, the data indicates that remote work gives room sleep quality than other work locations.

Hours Work per week by Gender

The analysis shows that 55-60 minutes has highest hours work per week with gender count of 699 , followed by 20-24 minutes ,25-29 minutes, and 30-34 minutes with gender counts of 653, 630, and 614 respectively. overall, the data indicates that highest work per week by gender is 55-60 miutes.

Recommendations 
1️⃣ As an employee, if there is opportunity to choose between between the three types of locations, choose onsite since it's less stressful than others.

2️⃣ Employer should increase employees' options for where, when, and how they work: Today's employees want to control where they work whether it is fully in person, fully remote, or a hybrid of the two and they are more satisfied when they are given the chance to decide.


3️⃣ Managers should be training on how to promote health and well being of other staff because leadership needs to be on board to create a psychological health culture. Managers and supervisors who work directly with employees are the key to implementing and sustaining policies and procedures and creating a general supportive environment.
